---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/OSCP/12. Active Directory Enumeration/7. BloodHound/"}
---

-----------
## Collecting with SharpHound:
- Can be used in different formats, e.g. non-compiled, pre-compiled binary, ps-script
- Also supports looping for running bloodhound continuously to catch changes
Usage:
1. Get script to system and launch bypassed powershell.
2. Import module:
```
Import-Module .\Sharphound.ps1
```
3. Invoke Bloodhound:
```
Invoke-BloodHound -CollectionMethod All -OutputDirectory C:\temp\ -OutputPrefix "audit"
```
4. Delete generated .bin cache file at output location!

---------
## Analyzing with BloodHound:
1. Start the Neo4j service:
```
sudo neo4j start
```
2. Browse to the interface at: http://localhost:7474
3. Authenticate using both username and password "neo4j". Then choose new password to database.
4. Start Bloodhound from the terminal and log in using the credentials created:
```
bloodhound
```
5. Unzip and upload data from "Upload Data" in GUI.

-----------
## BloodHound analysis:
- Click "Analysis" and examine pre-built analysis options.
- Right click on hosts and hit "? Help" to further examine information such as abuse  and opsec info.
- Use the "Shortest Paths" function to see the shortest path to domain admin from your initial access point.
- Return all objects in database with property "Computer":
```
MATCH (m:Computer) RETURN m
```
- All objects that contains word:
```
MATCH (c:Computer) WHERE c.name CONTAINS "SEARCH" RETURN c
```
- Display sessions between hosts:
```
MATCH p = (c:Computer)-[:HasSession]->(m:User) RETURN p
```
- Kerberoastable Users with a path to Domain Admin:
```
MATCH (u:User {hasspn:true}) MATCH (g:Group) WHERE g.name CONTAINS 'DOMAIN ADMINS' MATCH p = shortestPath( (u)-[*1..]->(g) ) RETURN p
```
- Shortest paths to Domain Admins Group from computers:
```
MATCH (n:Computer),(m:Group {name:'DOMAIN ADMINS@ADM.HUDDINGE.SE'}),p=shortestPath((n)-[r:MemberOf|HasSession|AdminTo|AllExtendedRights|AddMember|ForceChangePassword|GenericAll|GenericWrite|Owns|WriteDacl|WriteOwner|CanRDP|ExecuteDCOM|AllowedToDelegate|ReadLAPSPassword|Contains|GpLink|AddAllowedToAct|AllowedToAct*1..]->(m)) RETURN p
```

Good queries to run:
- _Find all Domain Admins_
- _Find Workstations where Domain Users can RDP_
- _Find Servers where Domain Users can RDP_
- _Find Computers where Domain Users are Local Admin_
- _Shortest Path to Domain Admins from Owned Principals_
- _List all Kerberoastable Accounts_
